Hi there.
This is Lou.
And welcome back.
In the last lecture we discussed about database designing, we are the normalization process.
We started off with the book data, which was in a normalized form, and then we gradually refined the
schema, taking it through the different normal forms until all the relations were in BCN form where
there was zero redundancy in each of the tables.
So as we were moving through the different normal forms, we were decomposing the tables into smaller
tables.
So that was with the book data.
But in our course project, we also have other types of bookmarks like movies, web links, and we also
have the users.
So let's go ahead and see how the entire design looks like.
So we'll be using my skill workbench and I hope that you have already installed it.
So let me just go into start here.
All programs.
And my skull.
So it has both my skill server and my skill workbench here.
Let me just click that.
Okay.
So this is the screen that we have now here at the left.
There is the file here.
So I think you cannot see it here, but it's there.
So just click on that.
And beneath that in the submenu, you will see new model and there is also open model.
I have already created the model for for our project.
So let's just look at that.
Let me open it and then I'll explain a few more things.
So this is the model.
Okay.
So this is how the model looks like.
So this is the design of the our database for our project.
So I did not manually create any of these.
So what I have done is I have created all the tables in a test database and then I have reverse engineered
it using this tool.
And with that, I was able to create this design.
So the design was actually created from the actual database itself.
Normally what we would do is we would create the design first and then we would do a forward engineering
in order to create the database.
I will also be showing you how how to do that.
So but this one was reverse engineered.
So there is this thing called us reverse engineer here and database here.
So that's how I have done it.
So this is what we have.
And it is referred to as e r diagram where E stands for enhanced entity relationship diagram.
And this part we have already seen the book publisher, book author and author.
So it's called an enhanced entity relationship where entity would refer to these entities and R means
the relationships between the entities and entity is simply a table.
So this is what we have and we have seen this already.
So here we have these books, data, the publisher, book, author, author.
And similarly, if I scroll down, we can see the data for movies, the tables for movies.
So you have the movie and you have the director movie has directors and and they are connected.
We are movie underscore director and we also movie also has actors and it is connected via the movie.
And actors are connected using movie underscore actor table, just like in the case of book and authors.
So here these are all the relationships between the tables.
And then so apart from books and movies, we know that we also have web link.
So this is the web link and we also have users, right?
Users who are going to bookmark these different types of bookmarks.
So you have the user table here at the center and a user can bookmark these different types of bookmarks
like the book web link and movie.
So for that, we have separate tables here.
This particular table captures the relationship between user and book and book, so it captures information
about the users who have bookmarked some books.
Similarly, for web between user and web link, we have user underscore web link and between user and
movie, we have user underscore movie.
Now.
Let's go here.
So here, between book and publisher, this is a many to one relationship because a publisher here can
publish multiple books.
So if you look at it from this way, from book to publisher, it is many to one.
And from publisher to book, it is one to many because a single publisher can publish multiple books.
Right.
So that's why you have these two types here indicating that it is on the one side and in the one too
many.
This is the mini site, which means a single publisher can publish multiple books.
So there's many side is indicated via this triangle here, the one side using the two types here.
Now book an author.
We know that it's a many to many relationship because a single book can be authored by multiple authors
and a single author can also write multiple books.
So that's a many to many.
And we mentioned that in order to capture that, we need to create an intermediate table.
It's a relationship table and it's called US Book Author, and it captures the relationship between
books and authors.
Right.
And so that's what it is.
So similarly here also we have a movie, can have multiple directors, but typically we have one director.
Sometimes it's possible to switch once again, many, too many relationship.
And here also it's a many to many relationship between movie and actors.
So that's that.
Now, here, let's look at this table on one.
One more relationship type was 1 to 1.
So we'll get back to that.
And we have already discussed it in the previous lecture.
So here we have all the different columns here.
And as you can see, ID is the primary key and it is indicated using the key icon here and here in our
database, we have primary keys in all of the tables.
And so you can see the key icons with the primary keys in each of the tables.
And we have the columns and also the column data types.
Okay.
So that's with that.
So this is what we have.
So here we.
Here.
We know that.
User underscore ID is a foreign key, right.
And it is referencing the ID field and the user table.
Similarly, book underscore ID is also a foreign key and it references the ID field in the book.
So that goes with all of the different tables here.
Publisher underscore ID is here and publisher underscore ID is actually here.
So this is the foreign key and it is referencing the ID in the publisher field once again.
And here in book, underscore author book underscore ID and author underscore ID are foreign keys,
referencing the primary keys and the two corresponding tables.
Here is a user table.
Now sometimes we can also have 1 to 1 relationship and we also discuss that.
So in terms of 1 to 1 relationship, let's say, for example, this user table has an image and image
usually takes a lot of bytes and it has a special data type too.
So if this table is being queried many, many times for the for the image data, then it may be better
to store that image in for for a user and a separate table.
So we can have a separate table called user underscore image and we can just have the ID and the image
there.
And this table will just be like that will be the way it is right now.
And but there will be a 1 to 1 correspondence between this ID and that and the ID in that table.
So that's one reason why we would have 1 to 1 relationship, but then sometimes we might have like 50
to 100 columns in this particular table.
But here we also have email and password.
And when whenever we are logging in into a system, we need to validate the email and password.
And that's a very common activity.
So if you have like 50 or 100 other columns within this table and if you have millions of rows, then
just to perform that kind of a validation, it might be expensive to use this table.
So in that sense, in that case, we may maintain two tables, one with ID, email and password, and
the other one with ID and all the rest of the fields.
So that way we have, you know, that the table would be smaller.
And so performance wise, it would be better.
So that's just another example of why we might want to have a 1 to 1 relationship.
So that's about it here.
So normally this is how this is the database design.
And generally we will create this kind of a design and then after that we will create the database.
Some teams actually do not use a tool like this, but they just create all of the design in an in a
chat, in a chat, using pen.
And then after that, they would go ahead and create the database using a SQL queries.
The tables are everything else.
So in the next lecture, actually, we will we will be creating the database using proper SQL queries.
So we'll create the database and all of the tables and will populate them with the data and everything
will be done with queries.
And so we will see how that will be done in the next lecture.
But having a design such as this one is very, very good and very important, so that with a single
glance we know how the table looks like and it is especially useful for new hires.
So if there are any new hires in your team and if you have, let's say, hundreds or even thousands
of tables, which is not very uncommon.
So in that case, if there is a new hire, then somebody in the team would have to sit with the new
hire and show them all the different tables that are there in the database and also how they are related.
So doing it by showing them in the database itself is a very cumbersome process.
It will be very difficult to follow.
It could overwhelm the new hires.
So instead, if we if you show them this kind of an interface, this kind of a design, then it will
be much more easier for them to grasp the the design itself.
Right.
So that is what it is.
So it's very useful to design using a tool.
So we are done with this part and now let's go ahead and create a small model and then we will actually
do a forward engineering.
So let me just close this, close this.
So let me just go here.
This is this file menu.
So earlier I clicked on the open model because the model was saved and I just opened the save model.
Let me just say new model here.
So this is the new model and this is the schema, which is nothing but the database.
So let me just rename it.
So let me rename it to our course name JID Underscore.
So let's call it test here and here is some UTF, some other text data would be stored in UTF format,
but let's not worry about it now.
We need to create a diagram, so let's create a diagram here.
Let me double click on that.
So this is the diagram and this is the table here in the left, here in the left pane.
So here we have this vertical pane.
So let me click on this.
It says, Place a new table.
I clicked it once and then I'm going to click it here.
Now I'm going to.
So we are going to create the tables.
So we are just creating the diagram here, the model.
So let me double click it.
So let's just create a couple of tables.
Let's call it book here.
And.
I have double flip that ID and so let me change this to big and I can change it here.
Okay.
So that's the end.
And it's also primary key.
Now, the book also has title.
Okay.
And this is off type watcher or worker in some.
Some people call it a worker and some others pronounce it as wah cha.
So either way is fine.
So let's leave the Title 45 for now.
Now, let's also create a publisher, underscore ID.
So we will be creating a publisher table to.
So that's the publisher underscore ID, but publisher underscore ID is a foreign will be a foreign key
so and it will be referencing the ID field and publisher table.
So the type would be end here.
Big end.
Okay.
So that's what that.
Now let's go ahead and create another table called Publisher.
So let me click here.
On the column.
Let's keep it as ID the primary key.
And then let's create a name here.
So let's just leave it like that.
So we have created two tables.
Now let's create.
The relationship between them.
So one way we can do it is by this one by clicking here.
So let me click here.
So it says pick one or more columns for the foreign key.
So this is the foreign key.
I have done that.
Next it says, Pick the reference column.
The reference column is here.
And that's how we have the relationship.
So a publisher now can publish multiple books.
Now, let's go ahead.
And so this is all there within this tool, within the workbench tool, which is separate.
So it's just the graphical user interface.
And it can act as a client to our my SQL instance.
So let me just say forward engineer here.
So the here are the shows where the server instance is.
So this is where the server instance is.
So it is a local host, which means the local machine and it can also be represented using the IP.
120 7.0.0.1 and it is on port 3306.
So this was all done when you were installing my SQL instance, the server instance, make it next to
me, click next and it's asking for the root password.
So it is root in my case and it says there are two objects since there are two tables that need to be
created.
So we are hitting next.
Now here are the SQL queries that are going to be executed in the in the My SQL Server instance.
So this particular command here, the statement here, it says create JID, underscore test, create
this database effect if it is not existing and it says the default character set for here is UTF eight
now and then.
It is also creating the two other tables.
And this one is the publisher and this one is the book.
And let's not worry about the statements itself, because in the next lecture, we are going to look
at them.
But still, you can see that there is the ID and the name and the ID is the primary key.
And here also we have this.
And then there is the foreign key here, which is a publisher ID and it is going to reference the the
ID in the publisher.
So I think you can understand it, but we will still look at the queries in the next lecture.
So let me just click on next here.
So asking for the password one more time.
Then we close it.
So the following task will now be executed.
So this is connect to database.
And followed Engineer finished.
So that's it.
It's already created.
You just open?
Minus girl command line client password is a root and there is this command call show data basis.
So this is a command line utility.
It is also going to connect to the server.
It has already connected, in fact.
So here it is, the JID underscore test.
Now I can just say use JID underscore test.
Short tables.
Here are the two tables.
So that's how you would create the model.
And you can actually build your database, create your database right from the workbench itself.
So later at the end of the chapter, I might include some resources, some pointers also for or to some
videos which may provide more in-depth information about Workbench.
I'll try to find some videos, look out for that.
So that's about it.
Thank you.
And I hope you enjoyed learning about the workbench and also looking at the database design itself.
And see you in the next lecture.